ECE243 Final Project - Risk Global Domination: single player

Risk is a classic board game where the objective for each player is to conquer the entire map, which consists of unique territories. Players capture territories through dice rolls, where an attacking territory needs to roll a higher number than the defending territory to conquer it, introducing a randomness factor into the game. A player’s turn consists of adding soldiers to their territories, an option to attack an unlimited number of times (provided it is a legal move) and the option to move soldiers from one territory to another at the end of their turn. Continents are territories grouped together, and conquering an entire continent gives a significant bonus each player turn that can affect the later stages of the game.

Our implementation of Risk upholds the classic features, allowing for the single player mode by replacing all other players with algorithms that simulate other players’ actions. We used a Finite State Machine (FSM) for the general flow of the game, allowing for the polling of PS2 keyboard inputs. Double buffering is used for displaying and audio is utilized during attacking.

Upon starting the program, the user is greeted with a start screen, where the space and enter keys are used to continue. A tutorial screen then explains how the game mechanics and the different continental bonuses. After the tutorial is the main game phase, where a game board with initial setup is already generated. Like above, the main game phase consists of three steps. The user places the new soldiers by moving the cursor to one of their territories and press space. Moving onto the attacking phase, the user will move to one of their own territories and press space, then move to the opponent's territory and press space, this move will simulate the attack. The user can attack infinitely, and the escape key is q. At the end of users’ turn, the user can choose to move troops from one territory to another, or press q if they are satisfied already. The game automatically moves to the endgame screen when a user or machine takes over the entire map.
